General Users.
-------------


GCC and CC compilers
--------------------

The 'configure' script looks for a working GNU C compiler (gcc) and uses it
by default if it is found. You can force 'configure' to use the
standard C compiler (cc) by either adding a line to the 'configure'
script:

CC=cc

or by defining a shell variable:

set CC="cc"

The file 'config.cache' seems to retain the value for this option. If you
have already run 'configure' you may need to delete the 'config.cache' file
when changing back to the gcc compiler.


Shared libraries
----------------

By default, the configure script builds shared libraries using
libtool. While this is very nice for making usable binaries, it can be
a pain when trying to debug a program. For that reason, compilation of
shared libraries can be turned off by specifying the
'--disable-shared' option to 'configure'.

PLplot graphics
---------------

EMBOSS now comes with a stripped down version of PLplot which
is now compiled under the same system as EMBOSS.

PLplot can be obtained from http://emma.la.asu.edu/plplot/ which will
direct you to the FTP server ftp://dino.ph.utexas.edu/plplot/distrib/alpha/


PLplot is a scientific graphics library distributed under the GNU
Library license. This license is a requirement to integrate a graphics
library into EMBOSS while allowing third party packages (for example
PHYLIP) to be integrated with the EMBOSS libraries. We are interested
in any other GNU Library licensed scientific graphics packages.


The only major thing to know about PLplot for the normal user are the
device types. These consist of various plotters e.g.
"xterm","xwin","ps" (postscipt) ,"psc" (colour postscript).

  X devices. 
  ---------

To get xterm you must have X installed else PLplot will not build the
required driver.

  PNG driver.
  ----------

To get the PNG driver you will need to have installed z,png and gd
librarys. In particular gd version >=  1.6.3 must be used.
If for some reason you do not have the required librarys and your 
system support group will not update these ( In particular gd, as
the older versions support GIF which is NOT supported in later
versions) then install all three latest versions (z,gd,png) to a 
new directory and then add this new directory to your configure
line for EMBOSS.

i.e. ./configure --with-pngdriver=my_dir

as i installed gd etc using --prefix=my_dir 
in the configure of each.



Other graphics libraries
------------------------

We have considered other graphics libraries, including the GNU libplot
library. The problem with GNU libplot currently is that is uses the
full GNU license which is not suitable for the non-EMBOSS applications.
We understand that there will be a future release of GNU libplot under
the GNU Library license. If this happens then we will consider using
the GNU libplot library as an alternative or a replacement for PLplot.


Compilation scripts
-------------------
 
	Are no longer necessary due to PLplot being included in the
EMBOSS configure system. See INSTALL.

       But you will need to set PLPLOT_LIB to get the fonts needed for 
the graphics package.  
      

      setenv PLPLOT_LIB my_dir/EMBOSS-1.0.0/plplot/lib

      You should add the PLPLOT_LIB line to your .cshrc to avoid
      typing this in each session.


Installation.
-------------

	If you install EMBOSS (i.e, make install) then you will have
to setenv PLPLOT_LIB to the appropriate new directory given by:-
setenv PLPLOT_LIB $(prefix)/share/EMBOSS (see INSTALL for more info
on the prefix)

EMBOSS 1.0 can find the ACD files and data files in the install
directory, or in the original sources.

If you have copied the binaries to another directory instead, or
made other changes to the file locations, you can also use
enviromnent variables or the embossrc file(s) to tell the programs
where to look

You will need to use this command:

setenv EMBOSS_ACDROOT $(prefix)/share/EMBOSS/acd

or in your site emboss.default file (in the share/EMBOSS install
directory or under emboss/ in the original source directory) or in
~/.embossrc file put

env emboss_acdroot $(prefix)/share/EMBOSS/acd


Compilation Problems
--------------------

On some systems there may be compatibility problems with different
automake, autoconf or libtool versions. Always make sure that you keep
up to date with releases of these tools and let us know of any problems
you experience. If a libtool problem does arise you can try deleting
   config.cache
   ltmain.sh
   ltconfig
   libtool
and then type
   aclocal -I m4
   autoconf
   automake -a
and then retry the make.
